# Week 14 Day 1: JavaScript Basics You Will Need Know To Succeed In Mod 5

<a name="#readme-top"></a>

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>

These Learning Objectives are a supplement to App Academy Open and reinforce important concepts taught in Module 5.

## How to destructure values from objects and arrays

- `const { key } = object`
- `const [ index1, index2 ] = array`

Purpose:

- Destructuring is used everywhere in React and other modern libraries/frameworks

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

## How to use ternaries

- `<condition> ? <truthy return> : <falsey return>`

Purpose:

- To return different values depending on the outcome of the conditional expression

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

## How to use logical operators outside of boolean context

- logical AND `<boolean> && <value to return>`
- logical OR `<return if truthy> || <default value>`
- nullish coalescing `<null or undefined returns other side> ?? <value to return>`

Purpose

- They return the first truthy value in the expression.
- They are used for short-circuiting and conditional rendering.

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

### How to create new keys in objects:

Variable as key:

- `obj[variable] = value`

String as a key:

- `obj["string"] = value`
- `obj.string = value`

<br>

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

## How to remove keys from objects:

- `delete object[key]`

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

## Know the difference between value types vs reference types in memory

Value Types:

- Variables are stored containing a literal value

Reference Types:

- Variables are stored as only a hexadecimal reference to the original object in memory that holds the value

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

## How to shallow copy vs deep copy an object

Shallow copy:

- `{...obj}`
- `[...array]`

Deep copy:

- `JSON.stringify()` then `JSON.parse()`
- This technique is the easiest way to deep copy, but it only works on JSON serializable data and literal values. For complex objects and references, you'll need a custom function that is possibly recursive. Best to use Lodash library.

What are the differences between a shallow copy and a deep copy of an object?

<br>

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

These concepts are used throughout Mod 5 with the expectation that you already know how to implement them. **Study them**.
You **must** be fluent in the above concepts to succeed in this mod. Some are familiar to you, others not. No matter your current familiarity with the above concepts, take some time to look study them through Google, MDN or AppAcademy Open. Proficiency with these basics is absolutely vital to not only this Mod, but also your career.

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="#readme-top">Back to the top</a>
</p>
<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>
