# Week 14 Day 4: React Context

<a name="#readme-top"></a>

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>

As you go through the lectures and material for each day take notes in the provided sections. Not every detail is covered in this file. It's up to you to fill out this document with what you've learned as well as important material from lectures and videos.

## What is React Context?

- Previously, the only way to pass information from one component to another was through props. Context gives us another way.
- Context is a component that stores data and makes it available to all child components. Components can subscribe to this data through the `useContext` hook.
- The Context component itself is the Provider, and components that subscribe to context data are called Consumers.
- The Provider component accepts a mandatory prop called value which is usually an object, but you can assign it to anything.
- A React application can have many Context components that do specific things. It is common to see production applications with Contexts for themes, user auth data, language settings and other kinds of global data.
- Context is a powerful tool but may make component re-use more difficult if those components are subscribers. Not every component needs to subscribe to Context; use it in combination with props where needed. Props is your first tool to reach for when passing data around. If props and thoughtful component composition still doesn't solve your problem, then Context is probably your answer.

Simple usage (uncommon and inefficient. On value change, will cause all children components to rerender):

```js
import { createContext } from 'react';

const ExampleContext = createContext();

function RootComponent() {
  return (
    <ExampleContext.Provider value={{ someVal: 0 }}>
      <App />
    </ExampleContext.Provider>
  );
}
```

Create your own custom Provider component to keep children components from rerendering on value change.

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## Custom context provider (dynamic provider)

- A custom provider component allows you more functionality for your context.
- It is like any other component and thus can use React hooks for state and side effect management.
- You can pass useState setters into the value so subscribers can change context. This makes it dynamic.
- Can keep renders efficient by using `{props.children}` as the children of Context.Provider instead of a component. This way only the Provider and Subscriber components will rerender on value change, but non-subscribers will not rerender.
- You'll see custom provider components used the most often.

Syntax:

```js
import { createContext, useState } from 'react';

export const CountContext = createContext(props);

export default function CountProvider() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  return (
    <CountContext.Provider value={{ count, setCount }}>
      {props.children}
    </CountContext.Provider>
  );
}
```

And at the top of your application:

```js
import CountProvider from './CountContext';
import CountComponent from './CountComponent';

function App() {
  return (
    <CountProvider>
      <NonSubscriber />
      <CountComponent />
    </CountProvider>
  );
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## `useContext()`

- Allows a component to subscribe to context data.
- Create your own hook in your context provider file to eliminate needing to import `useContext` and `CountContext`.

Syntax:

```js
import { useContext } from 'react';
import { CountContext } from './CountContext';

export default function CountComponent() {
  // const [ count, setCount ] = useState(0);

  const { count, setCount } = useContext(CountContext);

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Welcome to the Count Component</h1>
      <h2>The count is {count}</h2>
      <button
        type="button"
        onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}
      >
        Increment!
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

React context documentation: [https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html)

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="#readme-top">Back to the top</a>
</p>
<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>
