# Week 15 Day 1: React Class Components

<a name="#readme-top"></a>

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>

As you go through the lectures and material for each day take notes in the provided sections. Not every detail is covered in this file. It's up to you to fill out this document with what you've learned as well as important material from lectures and videos.

## What are class components?

- Class Components were used before React 16. Many of you will work with codebases that were built using class based React. One of your jobs might be converting class components into functional components.
- They cannot use hooks and have specific methods that manage component state and state side effects.
- The useEffect hook replaces the class component lifecycle methods.
- Remember, event handler functions you create must be bound to that component's context. This is needed when you are passing in the event handler and not invoking it. If you are using an arrow function because you need to invoke the handler with an argument, ES6 implicit binding for arrow functions precludes the need to explicitly bind the function. That being said, it is always a good idea to bind your event handlers just in case you need to use them un-invoked. Bind them in the constructor method of your class.
- In contrast to the above method, you can use a JavaScript feature called public class fields to define your event handler. You would define it as a fat arrow function to bind its context to the class instance.
- Never pass props into state defined in the constructor. Prop changes are not detected by state this way and it can lead to bugs.
- There are many more methods available to class components. Some of them are deprecated, but in the below sections are the three common methods you will encounter.

Syntax:

```js
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor(props){
    super(props)
    this.state = {
      stateData = 'click me!'
    }

    this.handleSubmit = this.handleSubmit.bind(this)
  }

  handleSubmit(e){
    console.log('do something')
  }

  //public class fields binding technique
  anotherSubmit = (e) => {
    console.log('do something')

  }

  render(){
    return (
      <>
        <button onClick={this.handleSubmit}>{this.state.stateData}</button>
      </>
    )
  }
}

//set default props this way
MyComponent.defaultProps = {
  propName: "some value"
}
```

<br>

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

## Class component state

- Because we are working in a class, state for each component instance will be defined in the constructor method as `this.state = {}`. Each key in the state object is known as a 'slice'.
- As you probably already assume, to access this state object in your class instance you will use `this.state.<key you defined>`.
- Never mutate this state object directly. You are given a setter function for this purpose, as was the case with hooks:
  - `this.setState((state, props) => stateChange)`.
- As with all state changes in React, in order for React to detect a change it must detect a new reference in memory. Always return a new reference in memory any time you call a state setter, whether you are using class components or hooks.
- Even if you have multiple slices of state in your component, your setter should only be invoked with an object containing the key/value pair you want to change. React will merge this object with the current state object.
- Note: the `this` value of your react class instances will contain a props object already and also contains the class method setState even if you don't use a constructor or call `super()`. These are available because your component is a child of `React.Component.` and those properties exist on the prototype.
- `setState()` takes an optional callback as its second argument. This function will be invoked with no arguments after `setState()` updates its slice of state. Use it as a way to reliably execute side effects based on the most updated version of state.

Syntax:

```js
class Input extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = { inputValue: '' };
  }

  optionalCallbackAfterSliceUpdates() {
    console.log('print after state is updated');
  }

  render() {
    return;
    <>
      <label>{this.props.label}</label>
      <input
        value={this.state.inputValue}
        onChange={() =>
          this.setState(
            (state) => ({ inputValue: e.target.value }),
            this.optionalCallbackAfterSliceUpdates
          )
        }
      />
    </>;
  }
}
```

<br>

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>

## Class component lifecycle methods

- You learned last week that useEffect has three configurations:
  - `useEffect(() => {})`
    - No dependency array, the callback runs on mount and after every render.
  - `useEffect(() => {}, [])`
    - Empty dependency array, the callback runs only on mount.
  - `useEffect(() => {}, [stateOrProps])`
    - Filled dependency array, the callback runs on mount and whenever vars in dependency array change reference in memory.
- UseEffect was created to combine three lifecycle methods available to the older class components. You can probably already guess when these instance methods run based on the names:
  - `componentDidMount()` Will run after the component is mounted to the DOM (inserted into the browser HTML tree). Great place to setup subscriptions, timers or send network requests.
  - `componentDidUpdate(prevProps, prevState)` Unlike useEffect, doesn't run after mount, but will run after props or state change. The the state object is the entire state object, not just a slice. You can use this method or `setState`'s optional second argument for side effects.
  - `componentWillUnmount()` This method will run immediately before a component is unmounted and destroyed. Perform any necessary cleanup in this method, such as invalidating timers, canceling network requests, or cleaning up any subscriptions that were created in `componentDidMount()`. Note: since the component is being destroyed, never call `setState()` in this method.

Syntax:

```js
export default class App extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {
      count: 0,
      anotherThing: 0,
      intId: 0,
    };

    this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);
  }

  handleClick(e) {
    this.setState({ count: this.state.count + 1 });
  }

  componentDidMount() {
    console.log('App mounted');
  }

  componentDidUpdate(prevProps, prevState) {
    //will run every rerender so use if statements when calling state here to prevent stack overflow.

    if (prevState.count !== this.state.count) {
      console.log(
        'count state was changed, latest data:: ',
        this.state.count,
        'oldState:: ',
        prevState
      );
    }

    console.log('comp did update!!');
  }

  componentWillUnmount() {
    console.log('App unmounting');
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div style={{ textAlign: 'center' }}>
        <h2>hello from app</h2>
        <br />
        <br />
        <h2>{this.state.count}</h2>
        <button onClick={this.handleClick}>change state</button>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

<br>

Your notes and code here:

- <notes/codeblocks>

<br>
<hr>
<br>

[Peruse the React Class Component docs here](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html).

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="#readme-top">Back to the top</a>
</p>
<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>
